[MUSIC PLAYING]
Hello, my juicy co-creators.
Lilou here for Gaiam TV.
A beautiful,
delicious, delightful
interview is here for you,
because I'm with Panache Desai.
Hello, Panache.
-Hi, Lilou.
It's great to be here with you.
It's great to be here
in beautiful Orlando,
sunny Florida, huh?
Absolutely gorgeous.
Beautiful weather
here, and people
are just having the best time.
-Yes.
And I'm really excited
to speak with you,
because a lot of people
told me about you,
and your name is really
getting out there and getting
bigger and bigger crowds.
So I was curious
as to why that is.
And you're bringing--
tell us about the essence
of your teaching, and then we'll
go a little bit more into it.
Because I feel it's precious
right now in these times
to be reminded of our
greatness and our light.
We're in the middle of a
very profound shift in the way
that we perceive ourselves.
And every single one
of you that's here
is basically here because
you're at a point in your life
where you're being
presented with a choice.
And the choice is to continue to
identify with your personality,
with your limitations,
with your conditioning,
with your thoughts,
with your body,
or to transition into
identification with your soul
and spirit, that part
of you that's infinite,
your exponential potential,
as I like to call it.
And so right now, my work
has been to usher people
into that reality, to
vibrationally support them.
Yoga, really, is a
vibrational science.
And the ancient
mystics and yogis
figured out lots
of different ways
to guide people into
that vibrational state.
More and more,
people are shifting
into that experiential place.
And so as spirituality
is shifting,
people are realizing that it's
no longer about just reading
books and attending
seminars, that there needs
to be a vibrational
dimension to the experience
for them to sustain
a transformation.
And so literally, my role is
just to be like a catalyst,
just to allow this greater
presence to flow through
and to allow that to be
presented in the modern context
and to be delivered in a way
the people can relate to it so
that it's useful, so
that it's accessible,
so that they can then see
themselves in the oneness
that they already
are and to live that.
And so it's just been this
extraordinary adventure for me.
And the more people
show up, the more
they're experiencing
this greater energy,
the more they're experiencing
the energy of themselves,
really.
And they're realizing that
their life is not wrong.
They're realizing
that, actually,
their life is a blessing.
And that greater realization
of the fact that their life is
a blessing is allowing them
to connect with a deeper
part of themselves
that then touches
the lives of those around them.
And so it's this ripple effect
that's bubbling out now,
that's creating this amazing
shift in people's lives,
that they're sustaining.
And they're living their greater
potential, their greater power.
So is that really-- 2012,
2013, are we talking here
also of a planet shift
that is simultaneously
happening within us?
Is that both?
It's happening on every level.
So it's a personal level,
it's a planetary level,
and it's a universal level.
And all three levels
are interrelated.
And so what's happening is now
we're coming back into harmony
with ourselves, which
is great, which means
we stop making ourselves wrong.
We stop judging ourselves.
We stop blaming ourselves.
We stop trying to fix, heal,
change, and improve ourselves.
And we realize that God was
not having a bad day when
we were made, that,
in fact, we were
made in absolute perfection.
And so we're shifting our
relationship with ourselves.
We're coming into
harmony with our design.
Like nothing in nature
questions its design.
A rock doesn't sit there
wishing that it was something
other than a rock, right?
Everything in nature just
conforms to its design.
And we're beginning to once
again conform to our design
just the way we are.
And it's important for people
to know that the divine loves
them just the way they are.
You know, Lilou, when I had
the experience of the divine
that I had, there
was no judgment.
There was no checklist.
There was nothing
that I needed to do.
It didn't matter.
I was just fully
embraced for who I was.
And who I was was enough.
I didn't need to be different.
I didn't need to have
done anything else.
No other version of myself
was required than the one
that I was.
And that's the
greater shift now,
is that acceptance, is that
presence, is that love of self,
that I am who I am.
And I have all these
wonderful parts to me.
And what society, and what
we even judge in spirituality
and we judge in different
parts of life, what they deem
to be negative or wrong is not.
It's actually just a blessing
waiting to be revealed.
And there's a blessing
in everything.
You know, what makes
a rainbow so beautiful
is the fact that
it is every color.
It's got red.
It's yellow.
It's got green.
In the absence of
one of those colors,
it wouldn't be as
beautiful as it is.
In the absence of your
anger, you wouldn't
be as beautiful as you are.
In the absence of your
fear, you wouldn't
be as beautiful as you are.
In the absence of your
story, you wouldn't be you.
And so instead of
questioning our design,
it's time to start
embracing our design.
And what I found is that when
we stop fighting with ourselves,
we tap into that
planetary harmony
and that universal harmony.
And then life gets
really good, because then
that greater presence
begins to work through us.
And the Earth is also
shifting in that same way
as we're shifting?
Or it's helping us to shift?
It's a combination
of them both.
You know, right
now, a lot of people
are finding it very
hard to sustain states
of awareness and consciousness.
And it almost feels like you're
not standing on steady ground.
But that's because
the Earth is elevating
a vibrational resonance, too.
And once this shift
is completed you're
going to feel like you finally
have some form of a stable base
underneath you.
And everything that you've
done up until this moment
will start to bear
fruit in a way
that you can't even
imagine right now.
So two things are
happening, right?
Now, people either feel
like they're in limbo,
or they're just
impatient, you know?
They're either in limbo, like,
oh, my God, like I'm stuck,
I'm stuck, I'm stuck.
Or they're just like, oh,
quickly let's move, let's move,
move.
But either way, nothing
yet is occurring in the way
that they know is possible.
Because we're waiting for
this vibrational platform.
Once we get this vibrational
platform underneath us,
things are going to start
happening so quickly.
We're going to start
living into this time
that every great being spoke
of, where we would, in fact,
actually do more than they did.
And so this personal planetary
and universal alignment
is bringing us into the
fullness of who we are
and the infinite expression
that we're here to be.
So the Buddha, the
Jesus, all these guys
that were on the
planet are all-- more
or less we can do the same?
We can all do the same?
We can all embody the divine
the same way that then they did?
Yes, we can.
And that's the
greatest thing of all,
that their lives were
lived as an example
for what's possible for us.
They came here to demonstrate
that in physical form.
Otherwise, they could have
just come as a blob of energy,
right?
I mean, why would they
have to take a body?
They wouldn't, what they?
So they came in human
form to demonstrate what's
possible for us and to also
walk the human experience
and to navigate
it consciously so
that we can navigate it
consciously now in the way
that we are.
We're literally standing on
the shoulders of all of them,
and they are just clapping
us on and urging us
on to just once
and for all finally
own our potential,
to finally accept it
and to live it in every
moment of our lives.
When you say we're capable
of greater than them,
what do you mean?
I mean that everything
that's been demonstrated
will begin to be
demonstrated through us.
The way I see it is that people,
like people that are watching,
you, everybody, we're just going
to embody spirit and presence
so powerfully that just
walking down the street,
everything that's
required or everything
that everyone perceives as
missing will be delivered.
And in that moment, spontaneous
alignments will begin to occur.
And it's going to
appear to be miraculous.
All of a sudden it's going to
appear that something amazing
just occurred.
But for us, it's
going to be normal.
We're going to make the
miraculous normal and ordinary,
because everybody's
going to be doing it.
Everyone's going to be
tapping into that potential
and that power.
So just imagine right now
just walking down your street
and just you being you and
allowing your greater spirit
to emanate forth, just
spontaneously impacting
everything and everyone,
restoring everybody
to their natural
state of harmony
and their natural
state of balance,
reminding them that they never
left oneness, that that's
their natural state,
that that beingness is
their natural expression.
And so that's the power of each
and every single one of you.
We're very much living in an
age of personal empowerment,
and there's no longer a
teaching or following anybody.
This is about every single
one of you owning you light
and your contribution
and recognizing
that that is actually you just
authentically being yourself.
It's an amazing time.
Just like the dolphins,
when they swim,
they really are just being.
-That's right.
They're just being themselves.
But their being
themselves impacts
everything around them, right?
Sure.
Yeah, same thing with
the whales, right?
Same thing with us.
We are tuning forks.
Every single one of us
embodies vibrational resonance
and frequency.
And when we allow for who we are
on the level of our humanity,
our spirit naturally
emanates through that
and impacts everything.
You're all doing it.
You just made yourselves
wrong for doing it.
When you show up
because you embody love,
you bring everybody's
anger up or irritation
or sadness or frustration.
And then they judge you or they
make it about you so that they
don't have to really
receive the invitation
that you're offering them.
Because the invitation
that you're offering
them is back into love.
The possibility that
you're offering them
is back into themselves.
So what they have to do is
judge you, make you wrong,
make it about you, try and
change you, fix, heal, and
improve you, because it's you.
That way, it continually
pushes themselves away
from themselves.
So just don't take
it personally, folks.
Just know that something
greater is unfolding through you
and that that something
greater is bringing up
everything and
everyone around you,
that it's never been about you.
Is there some daily
practice or some things to do
to remind ourselves of this?
I think one of the greatest
things is to not take it
personally, is to just
recognize that your presence is
your presence.
What you know, you know for you.
And that everyone, regardless
of what they're saying,
is only ever talking
about themselves.
Because they're in
their own reality.
And so when someone
says something
to you like, oh, my God,
maybe you should change this,
or maybe you need
to improve this,
or maybe you need to
fix this, or maybe you
need to do something
differently,
they're talking
about themselves.
They're commenting on their
own state of consciousness
and awareness out loud.
That's all that's going on.
And so don't personalize things.
And if you do personalize
something, just embrace it.
Just feel what there is to feel.
You know, we're in
an age now where
it's important to become
fluid and to allow
things to flow through us.
Your sadness is not wrong.
Your anger is not wrong.
Your fear is not wrong.
It's not bad.
We're human.
And being human is the blessing.
And it's the acceptance
of all of that,
it's the acceptance
of everything
that you've been
conditioned to believe
is wrong that
allows you to access
the freedom that you are.
That's where the
spaciousness is.
And so when someone says
something about you,
just agree with them.
When somebody disagrees
with you, agree with them.
Don't offer any resistance,
because it's not true.
And when you just embrace
it no matter what it is,
it just washes through you.
It's only when you resist it,
you take a defensive posture,
that all of sudden then
there's an energy around it.
There's a resonance around it.
There's a frequency around it.
And then it becomes yours.
Just for a moment, just close
your eyes all over the world.
And just for a moment,
imagine if you had never,
ever personalized anything.
Would there be an issue?
If you had created no
meaning or significance
around any of
life's events, would
there be anything to resolve?
Would there be anything to heal?
Would there be
anything to prove?
Would there be anything to make
up for or feel guilty about?
There wouldn't.
So what's happened is that
we've personalized things.
We've made things about us.
And we've allowed that to occur.
So anywhere where we've
allowed that to occur,
we just let it wash
through you right now.
All around the world,
just take some breaths.
Just let it wash
through your system.
It's not about you.
And when it shows up
again or when it's there,
are some things to do again?
Because it seems
like there are some
that are really solidly, really
accurate and want to stay.
Yeah, and they're the
ones that we really mean.
They're the ones that we
really buy into, right?
So that's a label that
someone puts on you
and you really
agree with, right?
Like, oh, you'll never be happy.
And then, oh, my, God,
I'll never be happy.
And then you hold
onto it, right?
Well, guess what happens?
You'll never be happy.
But it's not the thought.
And this is the thing
that needs to evolve, too.
Like a lot of people are
involved in this conversation
that thoughts create reality.
Well, that would
be like God giving
every single human being
like a stick of dynamite--
not a good idea.
I mean, most of what we
think on a daily basis
is absolute nonsense.
Just imagine if all of that
immediately became reality.
We'd be in trouble, wouldn't we?
Right?
I mean, just imagine right
now if we both thought,
I wish I was dead.
We'd die, wouldn't we?
Thank God it doesn't
happen that way, right?
So people are missing
the deeper conversation.
The deeper conversation is
it's our vibrational resonance
and frequency that's impacting
our reality and our experience.
It's not our thoughts.
Our thoughts are, in
fact, a manifestation
of those unresolved
emotional feelings
that we have inside of us.
So if we have sadness and
fear and guilt inside of us,
then we have thoughts and
feelings of unworthiness,
you see?
But it's not the thought
that creates the experience.
It's actually the
unresolved energetic content
or density that's creating
the belief systems
or holding them in place.
And so any and all
places where you've
believed anything about you,
let's just take some breaths.
Let's just let that
wash through you.
Just relax and just let
that wash through you,
and just get in touch
with those energies,
the sadness, the fear.
Get in touch with it.
Allow life and
consciousness to do its job.
And its job is to bring you
into the fullness of yourself.
That is its sole purpose.
That's its sole purpose.
Feel your feelings.
Be present for what's
occurring in each moment.
Experience it through
to completion.
And when it arises
again, it's not wrong.
It's not bad.
It's not that you didn't do
it properly the first time.
We're human.
Eventually you'll get to a
point where feeling becomes
blissful-- feeling
becomes blissful--
that it's not wrong to
feel, that we shouldn't
be feeling certain things.
That's conditioning.
That's conforming to
society's conversation
around certain emotions.
Anger and sadness is
socially unacceptable.
So then what do we do?
We stuff them.
And then what happens?
They create density.
Why?
Because then we have all these
stories that them in place.
And then what happens?
They begin to cause dissonance
in our vibrational system.
And then what happens?
All of a sudden we're
an infinite being
pretending that we're not.
We've bought into limitation.
And our life begins
to reflect that.
Well, what if none
of that is true?
How about you're an
infinite being, and even
in the midst of all
of those experiences,
you're still an infinite
being, that it doesn't
change anything, that
infinity, by definition,
is all inclusive?
Oneness is all inclusive.
So it's time for an inclusive
way of being with ourselves--
with ourselves-- those
parts that you like
and those parts that you
perceive that you don't like.
They're all valid.
They're all relevant.
They're all leading
you into more.
Receive that all
around the world.
All of you, just
take some breaths.
Just receive that.
Just receive that in every cell.
Everything is working for you.
Everything is unfolding
for your benefit.
And everything that
you've been told
is wrong about you
is just a blessing
waiting to be realized.
That's all.
Tell us about the authentic
part being authentic.
You speak quite a lot about it.
Yeah.
So being authentic is when
you're angry, just be angry.
It's OK to be angry.
When you're sad, just be sad.
It's like, you don't
have to, you know,
all of sudden create additional
meaning around it, right?
Most people are sad, and
it's like, oh, my God,
I'm feeling the
sadness of the planet,
and my third chakra is
not spinning properly.
I need to do something.
No, you're just sad.
It's normal to be sad.
It doesn't matter what state
of consciousness you live in.
You're going to be sad.
You're going to
experience your anger.
And you're just not going to
have a problem with it anymore.
That's the difference.
But it can quickly wash away.
It can be quickly transmuted.
What is it linked to?
Why sometimes it's washed
away for some people
faster than others?
It's washed away because
we're in alignment with it.
We're not resisting it.
We're not rejecting it.
We're not trying to
do something with it.
We're just literally
being with it.
We're being spacious with it.
You know, it's like if you
actually get triggered,
and you get angry and you
just takes some breaths
and just allow that energy
to wash through you,
it's incredible.
And it's literally
like the closest thing
you'll have to feeling a volcano
going off inside of your body.
Really, like literally
the charge goes off.
The energy begins to arise.
And if you just
allow it to arise
and you just breathe through
it, it just washes through you.
And then it's done.
But most people don't do that.
Most people need to
assign a meaning to it.
It's because you did
something that I'm angry.
No, you're just angry.
You're just experiencing anger.
Anger is an energy.
It's OK.
It just wants to be
experienced, you see?
And that's the difference.
Sadness is a great emotion.
I love it.
We can only cry
in this dimension.
Salty water running down
both of your cheeks--
you make up the rest, right?
You're literally making it up.
But that's all that's happening.
Something occurs
in your reality,
and salty water starts dripping
down both sides of your face.
That's all crying
really is, you see?
But we make it significant.
We make it mean something.
We make it mean that in
some way, we're less than
or we're not quite
getting it, like we
should be joyful all the time.
But that's just so
one-dimensional.
We're here to feel
it all authentically.
When you're sad, be sad.
Be in the sadness.
Feel that.
Let it wash through you.
When you're angry, be angry.
So another way of
describing authenticity
is that you're in coherence.
You're in alignment
with what is.
You're not resisting.
You're not changing.
You're just in
alignment with what is.
You're surrendering to what is.
Is there some
other misconceptions
that you here and
that kind of makes
you tick off a little bit?
Well, there's lots
of misconceptions.
Like there's negative
energy that we
have to cleanse and clear.
That's all the old paradigm.
There's no such thing
as negative energy.
There's no such thing as
positive energy, either.
It's just energy, right?
We don't do that
with water, do we?
Water is positive, and
water is negative-- no.
It's human perception that's
creating the interpretation
of the experience, right?
So if an energy plays
out in your life in a way
that you like on the
level of your personality,
you'll say that's good
energy or good karma, right?
Oh, that was good karma, right?
If an energy plays out
in your life in a way
that you don't like on the
level of your personality,
you'll say that was negative
energy or bad karma.
Now, if that energy
that you don't like
is working in your
favor, you don't even
realize it, because
you're saying,
oh, my God, that's negative.
But really, ultimately, there's
no such thing as polarity.
It's only ever our mind
that's creating the polarity
or keeping the duality in place.
And so these conversations
of cleansing and clearing
imply that something's wrong.
Even when we see some-- we
see some dark forces sometimes,
too, I mean in the governments
or in the 9/11 or some tragedy,
I mean all that.
How can we not judge
that negatively
or even be scared of it?
Well, let me ask you this.
Judging it and then being
in the resistance of it
keeps it in place.
It keeps it locked in place.
That which we judge,
we lock in place.
Because we've got some point of
view around it in our minds--
dark forces.
I mean, just look
at how much power
we're giving it all, right?
But as infinite beings,
aren't we all of it?
We're all of it, aren't we?
So if we can just
be all of it, and we
can actually just resolve all
these energies inside of us,
we're free.
So another way of saying it is
that planetary events are just
illustrating to us
personally where we're still
unresolved with ourselves.
Something that's
happening in the world
is occurring so that we can
feel the energies inside of us
that we need to feel
around that event.
Like just imagine if
we all woke up tomorrow
loving and accepting ourselves.
What would happen, right?
But where does that begin?
That begins inside of us.
And so when something happens
in the world, the place to look
is inside of you.
And the place to look
is, oh, my God, what is
this bringing up inside of me?
And then to get present to
it and to experience it,
and in the experiencing
of it, then, you
can begin to feel it, right?
So a lot of people have a
lot of anger around war.
But what they don't realize
is that that anger around war
is keeping the paradigm
of war in place.
You see?
So when you're
watching the news,
instead of being victimized
by what you're seeing,
use it as a tool to
expand your consciousness
and to expand your
vibrational resonance by just
simply being with what
you're seeing and breathing,
just relaxing your body, and
just allowing every energy
inside of you around what's
occurring in front of you
to just wash through you system.
Then you get to a place
of harmony around it.
And then all of these
paradigms of human experience--
war, suffering, all these
things-- begin to fall away.
Ultimately, the more we
love and accept ourselves,
the more we are creating
a platform for this planet
to love and accept itself.
When we resist things, we're
ultimately just keeping all
those things locked in place.
Or we judge them, or we label
them dark forces, negative.
We're locking things in place
without even realizing--
without even realizing.
But action is also
important, right?
Or it's just a matter
of being and sitting
there in the fetus pose?
Action is really
important, but only once
you've come to a place of
clarity within yourself.
There are lots of
people right now trying
to resolve themselves
outside of themselves.
It doesn't work.
So once you've come
to a place of clarity
around it inside of
yourself, then yeah,
then of course action is great.
But action then is, don't
sit there on your couch
sending love and
light to somewhere.
Like that's a great action.
But how about you
just get on a plane
and go there and feed
people tangibly, right?
Like that's an action.
That's love in action.
That's actually taking action
in the place where it's
required instead
of sitting at home
and just sending love and light.
That's great, but you know what?
Just imagine if instead
of sending love and light
to a place, if everyone who
was really impacted by that
actually got on a plane
and went to that place,
how much more powerful
would that be, right?
Like if we actually
organized as a community,
and instead of just sitting
around where we are,
we go there, we feed people.
We're actually there with
people, holding space for them
and being with them, right?
So that's the difference.
So the first thing
to do is to examine
what it's bringing up in you.
That's the first thing.
Then the second
thing is, once you've
gotten that, then go there.
Do something.
Then go there and do something
from that place of neutrality
within yourself.
It brings up the money
conversation, of course,
our relationship to money.
There's not enough.
How can I go there and
fly there to this place?
Well, I mean, that's coming
from somebody who's flown
to so many different places.
-But I hear it often.
-Right.
But that's a conversation that
we've created in our own minds
that there's not enough.
So any and all places where
we've bought into fear, lack,
and scarcity is the truth.
Like let's just
dissolve all of that.
Just take some breaths.
Any and all places where you've
bought into that there's not
enough, that you're actually
going against the oneness
that you are and the
abundance that you are, let's
just lovingly
integrate all of that.
All around the
world, just breathe.
Just receive that.
And all places inside of you
where you have made fear, lack,
and scarcity more real than the
truth of your abundant nature,
take some breaths.
We're just going to
invite all that energy
to wash through you.
Because when you
actually bring it
into the light of your
awareness and your presence,
that you see it for the false
information that it really is,
it's not true.
It's not true.
There's more than
enough for everybody.
There always has
been, always has been.
And every single one
of you knows that.
So any and all places where
you've bought into fear, lack,
and scarcity to
keep you limited,
to keep your story in place, to
give you living in victimhood,
to keep you from fully shining
your light fully and brightly.
Take some breaths.
Just receive that.
Just let all of that come up.
Just allow all of that
to wash through you.
And just allow the truth
of your luminous nature
to just be revealed.
Allow the truth of your
luminous nature to be revealed.
The other
misconceptions that you
hear of-- so you just
talked about the negative,
the positive, about money.
What other kind of
seemingly truths
we're born into that
could be dissolved?
Well, the biggest misconception
is that we're not enlightened,
that enlightenment is an
event that we have to attain.
That's not true.
You as a soul came
into your body.
You're enlightened.
That's it.
You're done, right?
Your soul came in to form.
You're enlightened.
And everyone's
enlightened, by the way.
It's not just people
on a spiritual path.
Everybody's enlightened.
They have the light of
the divine within them.
That's enlightenment.
So that's not something--
-It doesn't go away?
No, never.
Lifelong eternal membership
to the Enlightenment Club,
Lilou-- no matter what
you do, your membership
will never be revoked, right?
So everyone just take a breath
and just chill out right now.
All of you that are seeking
and searching enlightenment,
just stop.
Just slow down.
And just be with this truth.
Your soul came into your body.
You're enlightened.
The light of the divine
manifested in physical form.
You're enlightened.
That's it.
Now, how you
experience that truth
is by lovingly accepting the
physicality, the mental form,
the emotional aspects.
That's when you experience
the luminous nature of life.
It's in those moments where you
begin to see through reality.
You see through the illusion
of solidity that exists.
You see the luminous
nature of things.
That's what I see
when I see people.
I just you see their
luminous essence.
And so enlightenment
is not a destination.
It's not an attainment.
You're already there.
Just take a breath.
Just receive that.
You're already enlightened--
already enlightened.
And you're experiencing
it to the degree
to which you're allowing
yourself to experience it.
You're experiencing to
the degree to which--
so will you all allow
yourselves to fully
experience your enlightenment?
Just take some breaths.
Just receive that.
Just allow yourselves to fully
experience the enlightenment
that you already are.
[DEEP BREATH] Cool.
[BOTH LAUGHING]
That's awesome.
That just shifted everything.
Beautiful.
Some other ones that you
hear from even other teachers
or some things that you've
read or you just hear
and you're like, no.
Well, I mean,
the biggest one is
that you have to go through
somebody to get to yourself.
So in India, the
primal essence of yoga,
or Indian philosophy, which
actually-- so Hinduism
is not a religion.
That's the first misconception.
It's not.
The translation-- actually,
the word is "sanatan dharma."
And "sanatan dharma" is
actually "eternal truth."
And eternal truth is
not a destination.
It's not something that
you have to attain.
Eternal truth is
all encompassing.
It's not a religion.
So the ancient yogis and mystics
uncovered a vibrational science
that we're vibrational
beings, that at the root,
core essence of reality,
there's this luminous quality.
And some also describe
this sound of Om.
So there's a luminous quality
in a sound vibration, Om, that
is the essence of all creation.
That's their belief.
And that's actually an
experience that people
have when they transition.
They have near
death experiences.
They experience their
luminous quality,
and they experience
that sound vibration.
So this greater essence, the
foundational principle of it
is that god, guru, and self
are already one, that, in fact,
there is no separation.
That truth was also articulated
by Jesus when he said,
I and my father are one.
There's no separation
in that, right?
And Lord Buddha realized it
when he realized that it wasn't
through the material
world, and it wasn't
through spiritual austerity.
It's the middle path.
And so this same eternal truth
pervades every single path
in every single tradition.
But my beloved friends, you are
that eternal truth right now.
You're living it.
You're living that
eternal truth.
And it's not about going
through anybody anymore.
It's about understanding
that you yourself
already know everything
that you need
to know for you in your life.
So when I first
started doing programs,
sometimes nobody would show up.
So I would just do the
whole program for myself.
Because I realized that I
was the only one who needed
to hear what I was saying.
And when I started listening
to myself, my life got better.
We don't listen to ourselves.
We've projected our
light, love, and power
onto external authorities.
And the very second you put
yourself outside of yourself,
you're lost.
You're lost.
There's no completion
that's possible-- none.
None.
And so any and all places where
you've projected you light,
love, and power
onto someone else,
or you actually
believe in your mind
that somebody has something
that you don't already have,
are you willing to just
fully allow all of that
to just wash through you?
Take some breaths.
Just relax.
Just let all of that
wash through you.
In oneness, there's
no hierarchy.
There's no guru.
There's no disciple.
There's no teaching.
There's no healer.
There's no one healed.
Everybody is just an
emanation of spirit,
and spirit in each moment
is whole and complete,
abiding in the
fullness of itself.
So all around the world, are
you willing to just abide
in the fullness of yourself?
Just take some breaths.
Just receive that.
Receive that.
[DEEP BREATH] Cool.
It's getting good.
[BOTH LAUGHING]
The oneness-- my goodness,
everybody speaks about that.
And we're getting
it, and sometimes
we're back into the separation.
But more and more, we can
feel that oneness, allowing
ourselves to feel the oneness.
Yeah.
And oneness is always here.
Oneness is our natural state.
It's always here.
It's our unnatural state.
It's when we allow ourselves
to be our natural state--
when we allow ourselves to
be our natural state, that's
oneness.
So even in those moments
where you feel like you're not
experiencing oneness, you are.
It's just waiting for you
to dive a little deeper,
just waiting for you to
take three deep breaths
and just go a little
deeper, to tap into it.
But it's always there.
Oneness and the
divine and beingness
is that undercurrent of life.
It's always there.
It's just we don't stop
and slow down and go there.
So it's always there.
It's always inside of you.
It's always there.
It's not an attainment.
It's nothing that you have
to do something to have.
It isn't.
And there's not someone that's
going to bestow it upon you.
That's another illusion.
It's something that ultimately
you finally give yourself
permission to be and have.
So let's just anchor
everybody in oneness, Lilou.
So just take some deep breaths.
[DEEP BREATH] Good.
And are you also
willing to acknowledge
that all the seeking
and searching
that you've been
doing, all along you've
just been looking for yourself?
Take some breaths.
[BOTH LAUGHING]
All this seeking and searching
that everyone's doing
is no different than a
dog chasing its own tail
until eventually it bites
its own tail and then yelps.
Because it's
realized that it was
just chasing a part of itself.
My beloved friends,
you are the most
sacred place there is upon this
Earth, every single one of you.
Right inside?
That's right, right
inside, will along.
All along.
Some people say that
it's in the heart.
Yeah, it's in the heart.
It's wherever you want it to be.
It's your reality.
So whatever it is that
you would like it to be,
just receive that.
Just provide yourself in this
moment whatever it is that you
need to fully own your power and
your light and your luminosity.
And let's end the game of
projection and reflection.
Let's just dissolve
that whole paradigm.
Because the foundation, again,
is god, guru, and self are one.
God, guru, and self are one.
There's no separation--
no separation.
And the funny thing
is, everyone's
trying to end separation, but
separation is not the enemy.
It's not.
Planet Earth is like Las Vegas.
This is the only
dimension where you
can eat food, where I can see
the illusion of someone else,
right?
Like there's another body, and
it's very convincing that it's
someone other than me.
But it's just me
in another form.
And that's what separation
allows us to have.
Like you can actually
see something
and have the illusion of it
being something other than you.
And then you can articulate
to that other thing
that you perceive to be
separate, I love you.
Or you can embrace it.
You can hug it, right?
You can eat things here.
You can smell things here.
You can taste things here.
Separation is the blessing.
It's not the enemy.
It's what allows us to
have this experience
of ourselves in other
forms, of who we are
made manifest in other forms.
So embrace the separation.
Embrace the separation.
Stop trying to end it.
Just embrace it.
It's a blessing.
So let's just embrace that.
Take some breaths.
Embrace the separation.
Separation is not the enemy.
Embracing, release it, loving--
the mental goes back into it.
So embracing it just creates
space for the experiencing
and feeling of it.
That's all.
Embracing it.
So the languaging
is changing, too.
Like embracing is more of that
divine feminine languaging.
Embracing.
It's like when you're a
child and you fall over
and you scrape your knee, all
you want is to be embraced.
And in that moment when you're
embraced-- when you observe
children in the
playground, they'll cry,
but the very second they're
embraced and they're help
and they feel OK, they'll
go and play again.
But here's what happens when
something isn't embraced.
Same child falls over, scrapes
his knee, and the mother says,
I didn't raise you to be soft.
Why are you crying?
What are you crying for?
Don't cry.
I raised you to be tough.
I raised you to be strong.
What's wrong with you?
Why are you crying?
What happens to that child?
The child's like, oh, my
God, and it keeps crying
and it freaks out and it shuts
down that way of being, right?
But that's what we're
doing to ourselves.
In any given moment,
we're that mother.
And we're either loving
and embracing of ourselves,
or we're the other version.
What's wrong with you?
Why are you feeling this?
You've been meditating for
20 minutes for 20 years
now every morning.
Why are you still feeling
all of these things?
You've been cleansed.
You've been cleared.
You've been smudged.
You've gone everywhere
you're supposed to go.
You've gone to
every sacred site.
You've received activation.
You have every technique
and modality that you
could ever possibly have.
Why are you still feeling this?
What's wrong with you?
Your chakras are
spinning properly, right?
There's that version, or
there's just an embracing.
Which one feels better?
The embracing.
And how do you see
relationship, people getting
together in couple
and deciding to--
is there a particular
mirroring effect there more
than other relationship
or friendship or any type
of other relationship?
Yeah, because love,
loving relationships,
bring everything up in you that
you've created to not be love.
So everything that you've
judged about yourself
is going to come up.
All your insecurities
are going to come up.
Everything that you're
afraid of is going to arise.
Everything is going
to arise in you.
There's this wonderful
spiritual teacher
from India who said, if you
want to do spiritual practice,
get married.
Because then you're
with a mirror 24/7
that you can't escape, right?
You with yourself all
the time in another body.
And there's nothing
like love to bring
everything up in everybody.
So relationships are great.
It's like being in
a workshop 24/7.
It's like trigger,
embrace, trigger, embrace,
trigger, embrace, right?
And you get to expand.
That's what love does.
Love expands you.
And so relationships are great.
They're a great catalyst for
ourselves-- for ourselves.
But ultimately, you have to know
and understand that you're only
ever in relationship
with yourself,
that ultimately
that other person
is playing the role that you've
asked them to play for you.
And as long as you
can remember that,
you'll consciously be engaged
in relationship-- consciously.
But you've asked that person to
show up at that point in time
and space to push
all of your buttons,
to show you everything
that you have
to embrace within yourself.
And as long as you
can remember that,
it's the sweetest
experience there is.
Because then, it's
not about them.
It's not about them.
Women that get abused, or
there's so many different type
of cases, some relationship that
are no longer needed, really,
too, because how do you
know whether it's coming
from you, the other person?
Ultimately, you
get to a point where
you just-- you're done, right?
Some people get married.
From day one, they know they
married the wrong person.
Well, not the wrong
person, but they
knew on a vibrational level
that it wasn't going to last.
20 years later, they're
still in that situation.
Why?
Because they're still
in that situation
because they still haven't
vibrationally gleaned what
there is to glean
from that experience.
The very second you
come into that space,
you'll pack your
bags, you'll leave,
and won't even look back.
Same thing with work situations.
It's the same thing
with everything, right?
And abuse and all those things
occur in our reality because
of the guilt and the shame
that we feel and all of that
self-hatred that we feel.
Because then it's OK for someone
to act that way towards us,
you see?
And ultimately, that's why this
path of acceptance and loving
yourself is the most
revolutionary act that you
can commit in your lifetime.
Because loving yourself
means that you're
not a doormat anymore.
The funny thing is, the
more you love yourself,
the less you tolerate.
The more you value
yourself, the more
you're living in the
experience of your truth.
So just imagine like
if everyone fully
loved and accepted themselves.
Would we have war?
Would we have abuse?
Would we have famine?
Would we have suffering anymore?
If everyone woke up tomorrow,
would there be any conflict,
just loving and accepting?
Just imagine if every man and
woman woke up tomorrow, looked
in the mirror, and said, wow.
Wow.
Right?
That's where we're going.
That's where we are already.
That's what people are
remembering, that truth.
That's the eradication
of all of humanity's
perceived issues and problems.
And to really, fully--
we want to also help.
A lot us want to help
and be there at service.
How can we have find that?
How can we find our purpose,
why we're here on this Earth
at this time, our dharma?
Sometimes helping
is schmearing.
So like sometimes you want
to whip out your inner healer
or your inner
guidance counselor,
and so what I've found to be the
most supportive way of helping
somebody is just to hug
them, like literally just
embrace them.
I've found that people
don't want a teaching.
They don't want to be fixed.
They don't want to be helped.
They just want to be
held in whatever it
is that they're experiencing.
And when you can hold them in
whatever it is that they're
experiencing, it provides
them the space to just be
with themselves in a new way.
It's that we've all had those
moments where we're going
through something in life,
and someone phones you
and starts telling you
why what's going on,
why you should be
experiencing it,
and if they were in
your position, how they
would be doing it differently.
And that's just annoying,
isn't it, right?
That doesn't help, right?
You're just like, oh, my
God, please go away, right?
But ultimately, just
imagine if you could just
have someone in your
life, just like a midwife,
just hold space and just
embrace you in that moment.
That would allow you
to just soften and just
allow for whatever needs
to be felt to be felt.
So those of you that are into
techniques and modalities,
there's the most profound
one of all that's just a hug.
It's revolutionary.
And it has the
ability to transform
people's lives in a way that
they can actually receive.
That's all people want, just to
be embraced for who they are.
That's all they want.
The intentions-- do you
talk about intentions, too,
or is it just something
that life just
naturally arises when we are--
Intentions are funny.
I once made the mistake
of setting an intention.
And I know people
do that, right?
So it's let's say for example
you set the intention to be
unconditionally loving, right?
Guess what happens?
Your life shows you
everywhere in your experience
where you're not
unconditionally loving, right?
So then all of a sudden,
everyone that irritates you
shows up.
Unconditionally
love this, right?
Situations occur
in your reality.
So here's why I'm saying this.
The divine doesn't give
you what you ask for.
The divine gives you
an opportunity to grow
into what you're asking for.
So when you set the intention
for unconditional love,
everywhere in your
life where you
are not unconditionally
loving toward yourself
begins to arise.
And the divine says,
OK, now embrace this.
Now embrace this.
Now embrace this, right?
So that's where
intentions are useful.
What I've found is
that most people,
intentions are getting
in the way of them
just being and experiencing.
But ultimately, if you're in
the absolute trust of yourself
and your experience,
then you don't
have to intend for
anything, nor do
you have to manifest anything.
Because you just realize that
everything that's unfolding
is unfolding in the absolute
perfection of itself.
And at that point, you trust,
and you're along for the ride.
So any and all places where
you guys are not trusting
in yourselves or
you're feeling the need
to ask for things
because you feel
like the absence of those
things means something
about you, let's just
lovingly bring all of that up,
just allow all that
to wash through you.
Because for some people, the
absence of a relationship
just means they're unlovable.
The absence of money means
that they're not worthy, right?
But what if it
doesn't mean anything?
What if it's just the
absence of a relationship
and the absence of money,
and that's experiencing
that you're having?
And the funny thing is, that
when you can be at peace
with that, all of a sudden,
things start to show up in ways
that you can't even imagine.
So that's the blessing in
that, is being with what is,
allowing consciousness
to do its job,
allowing life to do its
job, allowing the absence
of something to do its job.
Because none of it is
a mistake-- none of it.
None of it.
And the heart-- do you
ever speak of the role
of the heart in all of that?
Do you feel that it's something
powerful that emanates,
that creates?
Is that our kind
of power center?
Or is it coming
from the whole body?
Or how do you see it?
That's a brilliant question.
Science is now proving that
the heart actually experiences
everything first
before your mind,
that we receive information
into the heart first.
The only issue is that we
don't leave it that way.
We then mentally
try to do something
with what we're experiencing.
So we create meaning and
significance with what
we're feeling and experiencing.
So, Lilou, everything
in our reality
is experiential, like everything
in nature is experiential.
We're the only
species that analyzes
everything-- everything, right?
We try and find meaning and
significance around all of it,
right?
How about we could just leave it
alone and just be experiential,
right?
So that's why zebras don't
come to seminars, right?
They don't, right?
Elephants don't come to
self-help workshops, do they?
They don't read books, right?
They don't, do they?
Why?
Because they're just
experiencing themselves.
Elephants also don't compare
themselves to other elephants,
right?
An elephant is perfectly
content having the experience
of being an elephant, right?
So what if we could just
be perfectly content having
the experience of being
human and give up the need
to compare and contrast and
just be ourselves and be
content with who we are
in the experience that
is that we're having, right?
Instead of making
ourselves a destination,
let's just be here now, as my
friend Ram Dass likes to say,
right?
Let's just be here now.
Let's just be fully available
for this present moment.
Let's just be fully
available for the fullness
of what is occurring right now.
And when we can be
available for that,
that's a heart-centered way
of living and experiencing.
There is no cognitive
need to understand.
There's no mental
process around it.
The mind does what it does,
but it doesn't matter anymore.
The heart is feeling
and experiencing.
And here's how we
can prove it, right?
Every one of you has
walked into a room,
and before anyone
having a conversation,
you feel on an intuitive level,
an energetic level, exactly
what's happening, right?
Everyone's had that experience.
Well, how do we know that?
Because on a vibrational
level, our heart
is picking up on what's
occurring before the mind.
Then your mind creates a
story around it, you see?
But the key is to just be
in the experiencing of it
on a heart level.
So another way of
describing this evolution
is shifting out of our
mind into our hearts,
being in our hearts,
being and feeling, being
and experiencing, being in
the completion, being in love,
being in oneness, being
in the inclusiveness,
being in that principle.
And when we do that,
the mind turns off.
We don't need to find a
trick to turn off the mind,
because if we're in the heart,
we can't be in the mind.
That's right.
The mind is not the
enemy, you know.
It's like, stop thinking.
Good luck with that.
Trying to stop thinking is
like trying to stop Niagara
Falls from being a waterfall.
[INAUDIBLE]
Good luck with that.
It's like you sit there, you're
trying to stop thinking, right?
The funny thing
is, when I see most
people that are meditating,
they look like they constipated.
They're not relaxed, right?
They're efforting
with every fiber
of their being to be calm.
How's that working?
It's not, is it, right?
So the key is, meditation,
as I define it,
is the divine art
of chilling out.
Just relax.
Chill out.
Take some breaths.
Just relax.
And then just be with
whatever is occurring.
The mind is not the enemy.
Your thoughts are
not wrong or bad.
Just let be, leave it alone.
Let it be, and
watch what happens.
You see?
Watch The miraculous unfold.
Right.
That's exactly right.
Don't try to be you.
Just be you.
Just relax.
Don't try to be enlightened.
Just realize that you're
already enlightened.
Be enlightened.
Don't try to become abundant.
You are abundant.
Don't try to be healed.
Our body has an amazing
ability to heal itself.
We won't allow it
to heal itself.
Relax.
Allow it to heal itself.
Allow it to come into harmony.
Allow it to do what it's
designed to do, right?
Be in whatever you are
feeling, relax, and experience
the fullness of this truth.
Beautiful.
Mm.
Thank you, Panache, for
this delicious conversation,
this delicious talk.
I really appreciate
your presence.
Thank you.
-Thank you, Lilou.
It's a pleasure and
an honor, as always.
And thanks to all the
people that are tuning in.
Lots of love to all of them.
Yes, lots of love,
beautiful, delicious,
co-creators all
around the world.
This was another beautiful
interview and conversation
here for Gaiam TV.
Much, much love wherever
you are around the world.
Bye-bye.
-Bye.